\section{System}

\subsection{Hardware implementation}

We created our hardware prototype using a Stantum Slate PC and a Stantum
multitouch panel[Figure 2]. The multitouch panel was fixed on the back
of the Slate PC. This replicated the same setup as a foot-scale device
with a backside touch input, and enabled us to test out the mechanisms
we had implemented.

\subsection{Software architecture}

One of the major functionalities of the interfaces was projecting the
touch points on the backside multitouch panel, onto Slate PC's
screen. To this effect, the software architecture for all the
mechanisms was split into two modules; the eventlogger and the GUI:

\subsubsection{Event logger}

The event logger iss responsible for capturing the events being
generated by the backside multitouch panel. These events are then
redirected to the GUI using a local socket connection. Since the
volume of the events being generated is huge, we had to make
modifications to the message passing routine of the
eventlogger. Instead of redirecting all the events generated on the
panel, we maintain a list of cursors or touch points and update the
cursors every 200 milliseconds. Whenever there is a change in the
position or state of a cursor, we send an update on the socket. This
ensures that the GUI is not flooded with more updates than it can
process.

\subsubsection{GUI}

The UI for the mechanisms was created in actionscript 3.0. The design
for the individual mechanisms will be explained in a following
section, but on a higher level the GUI receives cursor updates on the
local socket. Depending on the type of update, cursor positions were
updated, expired cursors were destroyed and new cursors were
introduced, as and when required.
