\section{Related Work}

Back side trackpads or touch screens (e.g. a secondary touch input on
the back of a device that augments the input from the front) exist on
some recent devices, including the Notion Inkâ€™s Adam tablet
(http://notionink.wordpress.com/), and Samsung has applied for a
patent for a method to use certain multi-touch gestures on the back of
a device in collaboration with a front multi-touch panel for inputing
gestures (US 20100188353).

Some recent efforts have also investigated alternate methods of text
inputs. Some of them like BlindType (http://www.blindtype.com) try to
let the user type without doing visual search, and by doing ambiguity
resolution and error correction. Some other efforts like SWYPE
(http://www.swypeinc.com) investigate approaches more disconnected
from traditional keypads. SWYPE is a mechanism that allows users to
draw spellings on the keypad, instead of pressing individual keys.

Wearable computing users often use one-handed chording keyboards as
their text input mechanism.  For example the Ekatetra
(http://www.ekatetra.com/), or the Twiddler
(http://www.handykey.com/).  One handed chording keyboards are almost
as old as computers themselves, with Doug Englebart demonstrating one
in 1968 after many years of work
(http://sloan.stanford.edu/mousesite/1968Demo.html).  Chording can be
used to free up a hand for, e.g. supporting a device.  Unfortunately,
this requires a secondary device for the user, if a standard chording
keyboard is to be used.  Peripherals are problematic because they get
lost, are often stuffed away in a bag, an generally inconvenient for
spontaneous use.

With training, chording keyboards, in conjunction with phonetic
encoding of words can be used to dramatically improve the speed of
text entry.  Stenotype keyboards, used by court transcriptionists and
closed captioners, allow for transciption speeds in excess of 300
words per minute for some (well trained) users.

